Imagine that you ask your team
to develop a new online training course.
Your team submits the finished course to you for feedback,
but you realize that there's been a critical mistake.
Your team thought that the course was being designed
for the end user,
but you actually wanted a course that was tailored
to your company and for internal use only.
Oops.
This is an example of one of many reasons
you can't overlook the role that communication plays
in a team's success.
So, what are the top goals
of communication in team management,
and how can you communicate more effectively with your team?
Let's explore the answers to these questions next.
First, you can use communication
as a tool to align your team.
An aligned team is one that has a shared direction, goal,
or objective that everyone is moving toward.
Everyone in the group knows what they're doing
and why they're doing it
so that team outcomes are cohesive and hit shared targets.
One way to align your team is to be direct
and clearly articulate shared objectives
at the beginning of new projects or meetings.
You might be even make this objective visual,
or write it down, to communicate it in various ways.
Perhaps the most common communication goal
in team management is to inform your team.
For example, you may need to communicate important updates,
provide skills, or process training,
share knowledge, give directions,
or explain a new project.
It's essential to make information accessible,
clear, and easy to process or understand for your team.
Break complex ideas into smaller, more digestible pieces,
and then summarize your main points
at the end of your communications
to reinforce your message.
Next, your team needs to be able to rely on you
for support and direction.
They need to have a way to communicate problems promptly,
ask questions when they need help,
and see clarification when they have doubts.
That's why it's a best practice
to adopt an open door policy.
Encourage your team to come to you with problems,
concerns, or questions.
Proactively ask your team if they need any support.
Team managers are also responsible
for motivating their teams.
This communication goal becomes especially important
when teams are facing challenges or setbacks.
You need to use your communication skills
to encourage your team, inspire them,
and foster positivity.
So, how do you do that?
Demonstrate positivity in your verbal
and nonverbal communications.
Talk about solutions rather than problems
and opportunities rather than challenges,
and use positive body language and tone
to express a motivating message.
It's also common for teams to work together
to brainstorm ideas or solutions.
Brainstorming sessions can easily get off track
and create imbalances in team member participation.
That's why it can be helpful to use open-ended questions
to steer the discussion in the right direction
and balance participation.
Finally, you may also use communication
as a tool to develop your team's skills.
You can do this by giving
and receiving constructive feedback.
Feedback should be a two-way street.
Set regular intervals to give positive
and constructive feedback to your team members.
Also, invite team members to give you feedback
on what they like, what they need from you,
or suggestions they have for you
to help them work more effectively.
Strong communication improves your team's ability
to collaborate and to identify and work through problems.
It also shields your team from potential conflicts.
Become a better communicator
to become a better team manager.